[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Sometimes we all
need a leg up when it comes
to the day-to-day decisions
in life, even when it comes
to knowing our own deeper
motivations.
This is where divination
tools come into play.
Paul Wagner is with us today
with his new book and deck
of cards titled "The Field
Guide to Human Personality."
We're going to talk about
how he developed his system,
and we're going to do a live
reading a little bit later on
and see how this
all works firsthand.
>>PAUL WAGNER: Cool.
All right.
>>REGINA: You have quite
an interesting background.
I mean, you went from kind
of techie computer geek,
to comedian actor, to now sage.
So if you'd take a
little time and just--
we want to know who you are.
>>WAGNER: Well, thank you.
First of all, I'm excited
to be on your show.
This is lovely.
>>REGINA: Thank you.
>>WAGNER: I've been
very, very fortunate.
I've had quite a
remarkable journey.
I was at Xerox after I was at,
first of all, Boston College.
I studied computer
science and math.
But I took a job at Xerox,
and a few months in, there
was a new secretary
at the front desk,
and I was always very friendly.
And I came in and I said
hello, and it turns out,
she was a psychic
filling in for somebody,
and she immediately said,
you're in the wrong job
and you have to exit
quickly in order
to get on a new life trajectory.
>>REGINA: How lucky.
>>WAGNER: Yeah.
I mean, I was kind
of a little shocked.
I was like, uh, could
I get a cup of coffee?
Can I-- is it OK if
I just-- you know.
So I had to make a quick
change, and I said, well,
what do you recommend?
And she said, there is
a healer named Karmu.
An African healer living in
Harvard Square in Cambridge.
She goes, go see him.
>>REGINA: Now, little did
you know she said that
to everyone that walked in.
Right?
>>WAGNER: I'll bet.
It's totally possible.
>>REGINA: No, I'm teasing.
OK.
So Karmu.
So pick up the story.
>>WAGNER: Yes.
I was very, very
lucky that I didn't
have much to do that day, so
I literally packed my stuff up
and I went right
to Harvard Square.
>>REGINA: Seriously?
>>WAGNER: And I went
to meet this guy.
>>REGINA: You quit
your job that day?
>>WAGNER: No.
Not just yet.
>>REGINA: Oh, OK.
>>WAGNER: No, but I took my
stuff that I came in with.
>>REGINA: Oh.
I see.
OK.
>>WAGNER: And I went
to see this man.
He was this lovely older
man in his late '80s,
and as I approached the place,
I saw all these shoes out front,
and they were doing
a documentary on him.
And they had unearthed
the fact that this man
had healed all these people
of thousands of things.
I mean, they had these books
filled with testimonials.
And I walked in, and the
film crew was wrapping up.
And he looked at me and
he said, Paul, please sit.
And so immediately, I got this
guy was somewhat intuitive.
And I sat on this large pillow.
He put his hand on my lower
spine, I saw the light of God,
and I passed out.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>WAGNER: I was out.
And when I woke up, he
was holding my hand,
and he had a cup of
tea for me, and he
said, let me tell you a
story about a man who's
gonna leave a company that
he's no longer happy at,
and he's gonna go on
a magnificent journey,
and he'll be on stages,
and he'll be writing,
and he'll be on
TV, and it's gonna
be a really exciting journey.
And he said, this man is
you, and it begins very soon.
And I just exploded in tears.
And I was like, yeah,
that sounds so right.
So I literally didn't have to--
>>REGINA: So me.
>>WAGNER: It was.
And so the next
day, I quit, and I
auditioned for a comedy troupe.
I got in the troop.
They were about to go
on a national tour.
I ended up on a national tour.
And I came back, auditioned
for one show-- a kids' TV show.
I landed the show.
Everything happened so
quickly, but it was, I think,
because I was in the right
place at the right time,
and I said yes.
>>REGINA: You said yes.
And then you went back later.
The plot thickens, right?
And you found out, there never
was a substitute secretary.
>>WAGNER: Right.
Right.
The building never existed.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So the substitute secretary
slash psychic really
changed your life.
>>WAGNER: She did.
She really-- it
shifted everything.
And she was so intense, it
was like you have to hear me.
It's like she had
this stake in it.
But it was very fortunate that--
it's very wonderful when people
show up in your life,
and they give you
a nice piece of information.
>>REGINA: At the exact
moment you can still hear it.
>>WAGNER: Yeah.
And then you can do something.
You can make a decision.
So.
>>REGINA: So OK.
Had you already had
background in comedy,
or acting, or
anything like that?
>>WAGNER: No.
I had never done anything.
Anything until the day that
I walked on that stage.
>>REGINA: Oh, come on.
Now, this is scary.
I think that's
everybody's greatest fear
is having to go out
and inspire an audience
to laugh in standup comedy.
I mean.
>>WAGNER: Yeah.
It was painful.
>>REGINA: That's gutsy.
>>WAGNER: Yeah.
Well, it wasn't perfect.
I mean, I'm not gonna
say I was a rock star.
>>REGINA: No one laughed.
>>WAGNER: It's very
hard to start in comedy.
But it eventually
grew, and to the point
that I wrote my
own one-man shows.
I took them around the world.
I had a lot of success on
stages all over the world.
I tried very hard to get my show
in a really good theater in New
York.
It was just way too expensive.
But by that time, I had a great
following doing custom shows
for corporations, where
I'd learn about the company
and deliver comedy shows.
And oftentimes, it was very
intense and somewhat disruptive
for them, because Id' be trying
to tell the truth, in a way.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>WAGNER: So that was-- I was
arrested a couple of times.
>>REGINA: How'd that happen?
>>WAGNER: You know,
I was in my late 20s,
so I was full of fire,
and a lot of arrogance,
and thought it
was my job to let,
for instance, Pfizer, know
what I felt about them.
>>REGINA: OK, give
us-- you don't have
to perform a comedy routine.
Maybe just give us
the bullet points.
>>WAGNER: I'll give you
just a tiny little glimpse.
I did their 150th anniversary
in Montreal, Canada.
Thousands of people.
I'm on the stage, and
I had written a script.
And the way I did my shows is,
I play characters on a screen,
and then I talk to
those characters.
And there's comedy in the
narrative and the discussion,
and then I do a
little bit of stand
up in between these interactive
sketches, basically.
And I basically opened the
show with seven minutes
of stand up, which went
pretty strong, pretty well,
and then I went live
to a Catholic priest,
and I confessed all of
Pfizer's sins to the priest.
>>REGINA: Oops.
>>WAGNER: And when I
looked up at the audience,
the audience was like--
[CROAKING]
You know, because
they'd been drinking
the Kool-Aid about what
they felt Pfizer was.
>>REGINA: How did you find
out what their sins were?
Or was this just something
that anyone could kind of
piece together?
Did you have a little
insider information?
>>WAGNER: I did.
>>REGINA: You did your research.
>>WAGNER: I did a lot.
I do a lot of research
for these shows.
>>REGINA: Oh goodness.
>>WAGNER: And the woman who was
in charge of a human resources
and sales hiring, who was
my guide into the company
and exploring the
show, it turns out she
was having a little
bit of a midlife crisis
and awakening about
her own experience
in corporate culture.
So I was really somewhat
living her dream
of confronting her company.
I just didn't know it.
But that's-- so you know,
they eventually had to shut
the screens down, and my mic
was dead, and the police came.
>>REGINA: Oh, they
gave you the hook.
>>WAGNER: I had to come off.
>>REGINA: No.
>>WAGNER: I was escorted.
>>REGINA: You got
escorted out by police?
>>WAGNER: Two policemen,
and they escorted me
off the property.
>>REGINA: Oh, now, that's--
it's not a criminal--
it's not a crime to--
>>WAGNER: Private property.
Turns out.
Private property,
you're unwanted,
you must leave immediately.
And I think what
they wanted to do--
I assume this is what they
wanted to do-- they wanted
to find a way to
demonstrate to the audience
the extreme that I'd gone to
share some information was
completely inappropriate.
I think it was for
the audience's effect.
But it was--
>>REGINA: I wonder
what happened afterward
in the wake of all if that.
>>WAGNER: I know.
All I know is I got a nice
check, so I'm happy with it.
>>REGINA: Well, that's cool.
And besides, the
pharmaceutical companies
have kind of shown their own
true colors over the time
anyway.
>>WAGNER: They really have,
so it's worked out for me.
>>REGINA: Wow.
OK.
That's interesting.
So now at what point
did you begin in life
your journeys of the more kind
of sacred, mystical practices.
>>WAGNER: Well, as I was doing
these shows-- you know when you
have a show, people
just come up to you
and they just start
talking to you.
And I was very lucky to have
people just show up in my life,
because I had this-- the
audition that I went on
after leaving Xerox is
I had my own kids TV
show for a bunch
of years in Boston.
So people would
just come up to me
and just invite me to things.
And somebody invited me to see--
>>REGINA: What was your
name on your TV show?
>>WAGNER: Oh, it was
just Paul Wagner.
>>REGINA: Oh.
It was Paul Wagner?
>>WAGNER: Yeah, just me.
>>REGINA: You used
your own name.
>>WAGNER: I did.
And I had a lovely co-host
named Elizabeth Dann,
and it was a very sweet show.
It was awesome.
It was so lovely.
But someone said to go
see this woman Amma, known
as the Hugging Saint.
Ammachi.
This was 30 years ago.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
She's so popular.
>>WAGNER: Huge.
She's quite a remarkable soul.
And so I went to see her.
She was in this little room.
There were 10 people in there.
I walk in the door.
I couldn't even handle
the intense vibration.
I'd never seen
anything like this.
This beautiful soul.
And I just started
sobbing, and I
just-- I ended up bowing to her.
I had no--
Nothing in me had ever
shown me to do that,
but I just remember bowing.
And I didn't even know what--
>>REGINA: Just a reverence
for the incredible quality
of energy.
Yeah.
>>WAGNER: Yeah.
It blew me away.
I can still feel that moment.
So yeah.
And then my life changed.
She eventually asked me to open
for her in different cities,
so I started opening--
>>REGINA: Doing comedy?
>>WAGNER: Yeah.
She wanted me to--
>>REGINA: How do you do
comedy for the hugging saint?
>>WAGNER: Well, it turns out
that, around these masters
is a lot of pretty
wackiness that happens.
When people are going
through a lot, when someone's
burning away thousands of past
lives out of a collective,
a lot of stuff is happening.
So there's a lot of
fodder for comedy.
I mean, for me, it was
really easy to write
a really fun show which
90% of the people that
would go thought was wonderful
and was like, wow, comedy here.
Wow!
And people felt welcome
because it opens them up.
But about, you know, 5% to
10% thought I was Antichrist,
but she asked me to do
it, so that's all I know.
But I did that for
a long, long time,
and it was quite remarkable.
>>REGINA: And so through
that journey you--
I mean, you've studied a lot of
different religious traditions
and modalities of not
just healing, but kind
of psychic
introspection and such.
So from there, where did you
start really picking up value?
>>WAGNER: I dove deeply into
Native American culture,
because a native
elder had called me
when I had my kids show and said
I'd like you to be my student,
but you have to want
that as much as I see it.
And he invited me to come
to his house for lunch
and I sat with him and I
realized he was right on.
There was a real connection,
and so I brought red cloth
and tobacco and I asked
him to be my teacher,
and we have this
lovely time together.
His name is Day Lone-Wolf
and he lives in Western mass.
He's a jewelry maker, and
a profound, beautiful soul,
and just taught me about
masculinity, how to be a man,
and how to ground all this
crazy intuition I have.
I didn't know what
to do with it.
It's images, and I thought
everybody was like this.
I honestly thought everybody
could see through each other.
I had no idea that
this is something
I had to contend with, so--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>WAGNER: But he showed me.
He taught me how
to play the flute,
and his uncle was a
man named Hawk who
made all of Santana's flutes.
And, you know, this man
made me this beautiful flute
from a dream I had,
and it was such a gift.
So I learned how to be a pipe
carrier and lead sweat lodges,
how to build sweat
lodges, and then
I did a lot of vision quests
in the Pecos Wilderness
in New Mexico where I
wouldn't have any food
or anything for about four
days, and I would literally just
talk to animals, and I
wrestled with a bear.
I got deeply into that
culture and the idea
of the release of
ego, which is--
and the release
of all the layers
that happens in a sweat lodge.
Sweat lodge is just death.
I mean, it's a beautiful
dying experience.
>>REGINA: Well yeah.
You're talking to someone
from Sedona, touchy subject.
>>WAGNER: Oh, you know.
Oh, yeah that's where all
that craziness happened.
>>REGINA: Yeah,
that wasn't good.
>>WAGNER: Very--
>>REGINA: But no, I
know what you mean.
It takes people to the
edge of a lot of things.
>>WAGNER: It does, it does.
And if you're in the
right environment,
you actually end up having
a pretty decent experience.
>>REGINA: Yes, yes.
Yes.
>>WAGNER: But it
was lovely for me,
and that's what got
we started, and then--
so it was really a path of-- I
ended up following Thich Nhat
Hanh.
I just love his writings.
Chogyam Trungpa's
writings are so intense,
and kind of confrontational,
and kind of anti-culture
and I love that.
And then Amma.
I was traveling and
touring with Amma.
And then it just all kind
of just grew into this thing
and I realized,
after a while, wow.
All these amazing teachers
just showed up in my life.
I didn't even have
to do anything.
They just showed up.
Very, very fortunate.
>>REGINA: And you stayed
in touch with your dreams,
and this is really
critical to this, so.
>>WAGNER: I did.
I did.
I kept going in the
performing realm,
and more and more, I got
into educational stuff.
I started leading retreats
where I would do, basically,
theatrical kind of
psychic drama where
if I hold somebody's
hand, I can feel
what they're going through.
I can play a character
in their life
and then we work something
out, and I did those retreats
for a while.
And then my corporate
stuff took off
and my one man shows took
off around the world,
and so I did all
that for a long time.
And after a while, I started
inventing technologies
and raising money
for technology,
and I'm running a technology
startup now here in Boulder.
But meanwhile, my
skills advanced
and my understanding of how
to run workshops and retreats
grew.
And three years ago, I
had this beautiful dream.
I had done my taxes.
It was April 15, did my taxes.
>>REGINA: So your
mind was freed up?
>>WAGNER: It was.
That's a great way to--
I never thought of that.
It was.
I had literally just
gave birth to something
that was terribly painful.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>WAGNER: And you're right.
That's a great way to put it.
I was freed up.
That's great because, you know,
you gruel over this paperwork.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
In the mail, OK.
>>WAGNER: Yeah.
Thank heavens, right?
But I woke up about 3
o'clock in the morning
to this beautiful dream of a
waterfall with these faces,
and it was very-- you know
those dreams that are just
so palpable that you kind
of have to stop for a second
and say, wait a second.
This is a little more
than just a dream.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>WAGNER: So I
woke up and I just
started writing down what I saw
and when I actually came out
of the dream state and was
awake the next morning,
they were personality names.
And I had written down
about 235 of them.
And so I just started
writing about them,
and that's where
these books came from.
So it's "The Field Guide
to Human Personalities,"
but it's actually three volumes.
Each one has 78 personalities,
and it's a total of 234.
But I realized each
personality was very unique
and had a very
specific name, and so I
got into the behavioral, the
emotional, the spiritual,
the psychological of each.
And then in each chapter,
I talk about that,
and then I talk about some
remedies and modalities
like mudras and mantras
that can help you just shift
a little bit to kind of
break that connection
or that somewhat of
addiction sometimes
to these personalities we
have, which are just temporary.
And that's what I
wanted to explore.
>>REGINA: So really
this was a download.
>>WAGNER: Yeah.
Total download.
>>REGINA: But you say
it also has embedded
in it kind of union archetypes.
>>WAGNER: It felt
that way after,
because I was very into Jung.
I read a lot of Jung and
I loved the archetypes.
But what I was feeling--
two things were happening.
One is, I loved
the-- Jung really
started spiritual psychology,
really examining yourself
from a higher perspective.
Not just it's mother,
it's my father,
but it's this broader,
beautiful picture.
And a fabric, if you will.
Meanwhile, I was a pretty
rambunctious, you know,
tough, wild, on fire
comedian deeply entrenched
in the New Age world.
Which is somewhat antithetical,
because the New Age scene was
born out-- you know,
it's the Aquarian age,
it's women are healing,
the feminine is healing,
and here I am, a wild man.
I didn't speak to anybody
in the Amma community
and the Buddhist
community for years,
because anything that
would come out of my mouth
was-- it would have
felt too destructive.
People were healing
and I want to respect
that the women have to
heal because they've
been abused for so long.
So for me, how does a
robust, masculine man-- even
how sensitive I am but
I'm still a guy's guy.
How do I heal if
I can't speak up?
So this is really,
if I can say this,
it's kind of-- it's New Age.
It's new thought.
It's somewhat out there,
but it's grounded.
It's actionable.
So it's kind of like
New Age with a penis,
if I can say that.
>>REGINA: Well,
you can see that.
You can see the masculine
influence in it,
because the images are very--
it's almost like a comic book
style in your face.
You know, ah!
Flames, you know?
You know, fire, burning
down, falling down.
It's like, whoa.
I mean, when I first saw
it, I thought, oh my god.
I'm not really quite sure
what to make of all of this.
It's a very different--
appearingly irreverent-- look
at archetypes.
>>WAGNER: I was trying for
a measure of irreverence
and to kind of shake
somebody a little bit.
In all the modalities that I've
experience with the masters,
it's not easy.
It's never easy.
Like, Amma doesn't go
around like, oh everything
is wonderful.
I mean, it shakes you.
Just being around
her shakes you.
And I wanted to provide
something that wasn't all white
light, airy fairy because you
know a lot of the New Age,
as much as I love it because it
is bringing light to the planet
and it's a movement, a lot of
it speaks of, if you're having
a negative thought just,
like, whisk it away and I just
don't-- it's not what
you should be doing.
If it shows up, look at it, find
compassion for it, embrace it.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>WAGNER: Feel that
emotion because--
>>REGINA: Too much
brushing under the rug.
>>WAGNER: Yeah.
And then what happens?
And then, you know,
we hit 55 or 60
and we're just going
to explode and that's
where disease comes
from, I think.
And I kept thinking about Jesus
in the desert for 40 days.
What was he-- he wasn't
making sand castles.
He was looking deeply at
every facet of humanity,
every type of individual,
every image he could imagine,
to fully process and find
the emotion, and therefore
the wisdom, for all of humanity.
And this is what I
wanted to provide.
An actionable tool
set that helps
you actually intensify that
spiritual growth that you're
seeking.
>>REGINA: Mmhmm.
You know when I
first looked at it,
I was looking through the book,
and I was looking at the cards.
A lot of them were
like, well, here.
Let's just take a few off
the front right there.
A lot of them were
really in your face.
It's like, oh. you know.
Convoluted, grouchy.
It's like, whoa.
I'm not going to-- I'm going to
hear all bad stuff about myself
today.
So talk about that.
Why did you choose to take
our, you know, grumpy, grouchy,
and other such traits?
>>WAGNER: Oh, I love that.
That's a great
question, and that
is the most important
question about this work,
so I appreciate you
asking it so directly.
20% of the cards, so
about 15 of the cards,
are literally grabbing somebody
a little bit by the throat.
And the reason we did
that-- and I say we
because my partner that drew
all these beautiful drawings,
we came up with the
stories and the narratives
over a number of years.
This woman, Loukia
Kyriakidou, was amazing.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
It's fun artwork.
>>WAGNER: Yeah.
She's really talented.
>>REGINA: It's very lively.
>>WAGNER: Yeah.
You can feel.
Like, you get a
sense of a scene.
But the idea was, it's
really hard to admit things
about ourselves.
I know how I am.
There are pieces
of me that I just
have a hard time
admitting and looking at,
and then my relationships
don't grow, I don't grow,
I'm not expanding, and I realize
this is how I've always done it
for myself is, I always end up
looking at the real hard stuff
eventually.
So I wanted to give
people the opportunity to,
hey, here's what's happening
or here's something, maybe,
you're scared of, but
why be scared of it?
And the writing is a little
different than the image.
So when you actually get
to the reading of it,
it'll be a little bumpy at the
start, but then it'll say, hey.
There's some value
in The Grouch,
because The Grouch
is about excellence.
That's why the grouch is
so grumpy and so critical.
They're just seeking for you or
whatever they're involved with
to be really good.
So they get and go argh!
>>REGINA: Until it's
good, they're grouchy.
>>WAGNER: Yeah.
And they might be grouchy
even after it's good,
but what I always like to
say about The Grouch is,
there's gold in the grump.
There's gold in it.
And I had a partner
in Hollywood,
a guy named Fred Silverman
who ran all the TV networks.
He was my business
partner, and he's tough.
But he's brilliant.
He's brilliant.
And I realized from him
that, why should I ever
be scared or nervous around
that, because they're just
bringing value to my life.
And I just noticed, like, even
a lot of my new age friends
are like, oh, I don't talk
to that kind of person,
or this kind of person.
They're so much in avoidance
mode, but that's not humanity.
>>REGINA: Avoiding pain.
>>WAGNER: Yeah.
And if you just take
a little bit of time,
it's actually not that painful.
There might be a little
tear, or a little--
but then it's like,
oh, The Grouch.
What a beautiful,
loving creature, and you
can fall in love
with The Grouch.
>>REGINA: OK So how do we
fall in love with The Whiner?
>>WAGNER: Well, you
know, any of these,
like The Flake, The Failure.
These are all parts of us.
I mean, you've had
success, obviously.
>>REGINA: I've whined plenty.
>>WAGNER: Right?
We whine.
I whine all the time.
>>REGINA: Been a flake.
>>WAGNER: Right same here.
And what was that about?
How can I not do that again?
Or, if I do do that, how
can I, in that moment,
recognize something quick--
how can I recognize it quicker?
And that's why I brought
these to life in that way.
What I've been doing is
running these meet up
groups in all these different
cities, because I really
wanted to find out,
what is this thing.
Because it's very different.
And what people are
saying is, because we
go through these
things together,
is that they're
finding that they're
getting to know themselves much
quicker than they were before
in the other modalities
that they were using.
And at the same time, they're
still a little concerned
about some of the
images, so that's
the feedback I'm getting.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
No, I can understand that.
I think that's fair.
>>WAGNER: It is fair.
So I'm actually
considering-- there's
nine images that
I might actually
lighten up a little bit.
So that's, I mean,
I want to learn too.
>>REGINA: Well, you still have
that in your face part of you.
You know, like you said.
It's a masculine
version of this.
It's not Doreen
Virtue's Angel Cards.
>>WAGNER: It's a little
different than the Angel
cards, yeah.
>>REGINA: You think?
>>WAGNER: Yeah.
Just a little bit.
>>REGINA: OK.
Let's see.
The healing modalities.
Yes.
Because in the book,
you incorporate things
like gemstones, flower
essences, essential oils.
And let's talk about
that a little bit.
The healing properties
of the book.
Because that's really
counter to those images.
In a lot of ways,
you'd say, really.
He talks about
essential oils in there?
Are you kidding me?
>>WAGNER: Well, you know,
I'll even take an example.
Like there's a character in
here called the righteous beast.
And I can get that way.
I can get harshly judgmental
about society, or government.
You know, I can get negative
and find myself just pointing
the finger rather than
coming up with solutions
or bringing light
into something.
And when I'm in that
mode, sometimes,
if I just take a little
star of Bethlehem,
you know, Bach flower remedy,
I'm a new person in 25 minutes.
I'm a new person.
I'm literally the light
of God in 25 minutes.
So what I've learned--
I mean, I've just--
>>REGINA: The vision of
compassion and acceptance.
>>WAGNER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: So OK.
Now, how did you start
pairing these gemstones,
essences, and all of this
with these archetypes?
>>WAGNER: These are
awesome questions.
Thank you.
Well, this is great.
So what a friend
of mine said, OK.
I'm these-- so what I say is
like six or seven personalities
we kind of juggle just
throughout our life,
depending on what we want from
a lover, or from a friend,
from a job, and so they
kind of continually
show up for a while.
And some you drop off
and pick up a new one.
So the question was, OK.
I'm these personalities.
Now what, smart guy?
And I was like, uh.
Eh.
Uh.
So then I had to look deeper
into what I'd been doing,
and that's-- so I had
to bring my process,
which was looking
at all these things.
So I broke down each personality
into emotions and phrases,
and those emotions
and phrases are pieces
of what that individual is.
And so then I
looked at gemstones,
and all the different colors.
So I looked at all those things.
Mudras, mantras, and
I wanted to find out
what those were vibrationally.
So I looked at original
Sanskrit, at original Hebrew,
you know, the
different languages
that these things come in,
and I made these flow charts
tying them to those emotions
related to that personality.
And that's how I
came up with it.
But the way I speak about
them, in each chapter,
I have that
personality empowerment
section that talks about it.
What I do is, I say, this
is just a suggestion.
You know, here's a
broad scope of things
that you might want to explore.
And that's because I
think, when you're actually
trying to make
major shifts, it's
really helpful to talk
to a professional that's
really a professional
Bach flower or homeopath.
It's incredible when you
spend time with those people,
because they're seeing--
>>REGINA: Are you
really-- I mean,
do you really-- you respond,
I take it, very well
to Bach flower remedies.
>>WAGNER: Oh my god.
I'm crazy about them.
I don't find anything
else as incredibly.
>>REGINA: See, I haven't
explored them enough.
Just a little here
and there, and I'm
asking because I'm
wondering about that myself.
It might be fun.
>>WAGNER: I love them.
I had a different approach.
I mean, the way
they describe them,
it's like, give me
three drops in a glass,
and put, like, a sip.
I don't do that.
>>REGINA: Just.
>>WAGNER: I do.
I'll do-- if I'm in the mode--
>>REGINA: Right on the tongue.
>>WAGNER: Like, if I'm
that righteous beast.
>>REGINA: Sting me.
>>WAGNER: Yeah.
Exactly.
>>REGINA: Just put that
stuff on your tongue.
>>WAGNER: Exactly.
Just tap it in.
I'm in.
So I'll do eight drops under
the tongue every half hour
for like two or three hours.
But boom.
It works.
Some of the ones
that I was taking,
you know, they can send you
way up into your crown Chakra,
and literally, you're
just channeling.
So I want to be careful of that.
>>REGINA: What are
a couple of those?
>>WAGNER: I do really
well with beech, pine.
They do really well cleaning
some of the ego stuff
out for me.
There's a whole bunch of them.
>>REGINA: Oh, here.
We don't want to get
side tracked too much.
I was just intrigued with that.
Yeah.
>>WAGNER: Yeah, me too.
That's one of my
favorite things.
>>REGINA: And so
the book has-- here
you have-- I'm going
to have to explain
how the cards work before.
In a little bit, we're
going to have Mark come out,
and you're going to do readings.
He's nervous.
It's like, oh my god.
Everybody can see all my traits.
Right?
>>WAGNER: It doesn't matter
if he's a sweetheart.
>>REGINA: He is a
total sweetheart.
We love Mark.
So you have morsels,
message, caution, extreme,
and empowerment.
So let's talk about
what these are.
>>WAGNER: Cool.
>>REGINA: People are set up.
>>WAGNER: Yeah.
So morsel.
So the personality starts
with a first person monologue,
so you can hear
that person talk.
So that kind of gets you set up.
>>REGINA: So let's
use The Grouch,
because we've already
talked about it.
What would a morsel
in The Grouch be?
>>WAGNER: So a morsel
in the-- I don't
know what it says, because
I forget what I wrote,
but that morsel, as soon
as you-- so the first thing
is a morsel.
It's just one line.
It's a quick, little one off.
Like if you're running out
the door, you draw a card,
and you just go flip
the page, morsel.
Ah, that's kind of cool.
And it's something you can
think about throughout the day.
So you grab that.
Message is just a very down
to earth description of,
there's sometimes a
little story mixed in.
It talks about what are the
basic traits, the attributes
of this creature.
What are some of just the
basic, chill tendencies?
Nothing out there.
And then in traditional
Tarot, I kept
looking at-- and
medicine cards, too,
which I think the medicine
cards are so lovely.
I kept looking at
this idea of reversed.
You know when you draw a
card and it's upside down?
>>REGINA: Yes.
Mhmm.
>>WAGNER: That would
always bum me out,
because as soon as you
draw that reverse card--
>>REGINA: You say, hey.
That's not fair.
Someone just shipped the
deck up wrong last time.
>>WAGNER: Yeah, exactly.
Yeah.
Or you're like, this is
going to be terrible.
And I look at the
moment of intention
when you're drawing those cards.
As soon as you
intend to seek help,
the whole thing changes anyway.
So why call it a reversed?
And leave it up
to the individual
to intuit the message
for themselves.
So I go from message, which is--
>>REGINA: So it
doesn't matter if these
are upside down or not.
No reversals.
>>WAGNER: Doesn't matter,
didn't want to get into that.
But I do get into--
>>REGINA: Caution.
>>WAGNER: Caution, which
is more like a reversed.
It's when things are
kind of messed up.
But then I take it to a whole
other level, because most of us
have major traumatic
events in our lives,
which, in these
reversed card systems,
they're just not
strong enough for me.
So I want to give
people three options.
So message, down to earth.
Caution, hey, things are
really kind of messed up.
They're getting messed up.
But you can make a
couple of changes,
and here's what you do.
And then extreme is, OK.
The house is on fire.
You're hanging from a rope.
This is the last thing you
can do to save yourself.
And I wanted to
take it out there,
because we all get in
that position of being
in a major, major
difficult situation that
looks completely unchangeable.
So that's how I deal with that.
And then personality
empowerment is--
>>REGINA: Empowerment, yeah.
>>WAGNER: So in the midst
of this personality.
It's showing up
all over the place.
I'm not enjoying it very much.
How do I get to joy?
And just trying a
couple of those things
ends up working pretty well.
>>REGINA: No, I love that part.
OK.
So let me ask you this.
If we're-- well,
there are two things.
One, for your own life, having
developed this, do you use it?
>>WAGNER: I use it every day.
>>REGINA: OK.
And how have you found
it to affect your life?
Obviously, you're in
resonance with it,
because you came
up with this stuff.
>>WAGNER: Well, yeah.
Well, first of all, it
feels like a gift to me.
So as I was writing
it over three years,
there was just a lot of crying.
I remember when I first
started writing it,
there was just sobbing
in each personality.
So what happens for me, when I
do readings for myself, which
are very simple--
I mean, I don't
go-- they're not 12-card
spreads and you're
channeling the Akashic records.
>>REGINA: You're out the
door, you grab a card.
>>WAGNER: Yeah, it's
quick, or just three cards.
And I made up some Jungian mixed
with tarot card spreads that
are in the books, so you
can actually, you know,
do some structured one.
But what I like to do is,
when I'm doing a reading,
I'm looking at, whatever
the question is,
these are the personalities
that are showing up,
but more importantly,
what are the attributes
of those personalities?
What are the behaviors?
What are the energetic trends?
What are the situational trends
that are being shown to me?
And what's within me
and what's within other.
What's happening in
the other people?
Because it's the same as
what's happening with me,
because there is no other.
So as much as
we're asking about,
like, an intimate relationship
or am I going to find a lover,
or is this thing
going to happen?
>>REGINA: It all
comes back to you.
And
>>WAGNER: Everything is us.
The whole thing is just a dream.
So if we can fall in love with
it all- so that's my journey
is to fall in love
with my readings.
So no matter what tough
of a card, whether it's
The Toxic, The Hedonist,
The Grouch-- those are
the tough ones-- or The
Healer, The Fearless,
some of the beautiful
ones, no matter
what it is, I want to love the
parts that I'm feeling reactive
or like I'm scared
of, and I want
to reduce the ego in the
ones that I've got up
on a spiritual pedestal,
so that I end up
without in the space
of without ego,
and I'm not in a place of
kind of parasympathetic kind
of addiction that the new
age thing kind of creates,
that it's, I'm here.
I'm working through it.
I've forgiven that person.
I've forgiven that
part of myself.
So that's what I
try to do every day.
And I ask very specific
questions sometimes.
>>REGINA: Well,
and you're clearly
very emotionally available.
>>WAGNER: Yeah.
Very helpful in general,
I think, because emotions,
there's no wisdom.
It's just impossible
>>REGINA: It's giving
us our information.
>>WAGNER: Yeah.
That's a nice way to put it.
It's all the information.
I cry all the time.
I mean, I'll see
wind blowing a branch
and I'll be like,
that is so beautiful.
>>REGINA: Oh, you're
worse than me.
>>WAGNER: I know.
I'm terrible.
But also, you know, I'm kind
of a crass, wild cretin.
I'm a very unusual
combination of things.
>>REGINA: No.
That's good to be that
open across the board.
So now we're going
to see-- don't make
Mark cry in front of everybody.
>>WAGNER: No, no, no.
I only do that to myself.
>>REGINA: OK.
So we're going to
rearrange the chairs.
We'll be back in just a moment,
and we'll have Mark with us,
and we will see how
a reading happens.
OK.
We're back, and now we're
going to begin the reading.
And we're starting fresh.
You've handled the
cards, and you're
going to infuse them with
your own energy in a moment,
and I'm going to
butt out and you
guys-- I hope you have
a profound reading.
>>WAGNER: We're excited.
So I just took these
out of the pouch
and I'm handing them to you.
So a good thing to do with
any divination practice,
using any tool or
anything in life,
really, is to take
a deep breath,
and to just clear your mind and
heart of the negative debris,
the judgment, all the icky
stuff that doesn't really
help us progress,
and when you're
feeling kind of clear and ready,
maybe think of a question.
It doesn't have to be super
specific, but as specific
as you'd like, and
then shuffle the cards,
pick three, and put them
on top of each other.
Take your time.
>>REGINA: Good thing
you have big hands.
Those are big cards.
>>MARK: These are big cards.
They're very nice.
>>WAGNER: They're durable.
>>MARK: Durable, OK.
>>WAGNER: Just stay with the
questions and the feelings.
>>MARK: The questions
and the feelings.
So I can ask more
than one question.
>>WAGNER: You can.
You can ask a number of
things, and you never
know what comes up
in these things.
>>MARK: OK.
And pick three?
>>WAGNER: Pick three and
place them right there.
>>MARK: OK.
Face down?
>>WAGNER: Sure.
Cool.
>>MARK: Set these down.
>>WAGNER: All right.
So you have picked three cards.
Oh, look at the tough ones.
This is great.
This is nice, actually.
>>REGINA: Oh no.
Not a bad one.
>>MARK: The Toxic.
>>WAGNER: So this is what
happens is, some of these cards
are a little intense.
And what they're trying
to share with you, I mean,
your guides are
really speaking here.
It's your intuition.
It's what's
magnetizing within you,
is a demonstration
of your wisdom
and a demonstration of where
you want to take your life.
>>REGINA: Can you
say them out loud
and we'll show
them on the screen
so everybody knows what
we're looking at here?
>>WAGNER: So Mark
drew The Observer.
That's one card.
And then The Indifferent.
That's the second card.
And then the third is The Toxic.
>>REGINA: That one,
we talked about.
>>WAGNER: Very
intense little card.
Very intense little card.
But let's talk about these.
>>MARK: Absolutely.
WAGNER: And if you would,
actually pick one more card.
>>MARK: OK.
>>WAGNER: Pretty please.
>>MARK: From
anywhere in the deck?
>>WAGNER: Anywhere in the deck.
>>MARK: I'm gonna
pick this card.
>>WAGNER: Great.
Cool.
So we'll leave that right here.
This is great.
Good.
So right off the
bat, what you've
learned through a large
part of your early life
is to kind of be an observer.
There's always been--
>>MARK: That's true.
>>WAGNER: Is that
a big part of you?
>>MARK: Yes.
Very much.
>>WAGNER: And as
The Observer, you've
picked up a couple things, some
positive, and some negative
as The Observer.
Because what
happens to observers
is, sometimes they can end up
observing so much, that when
they finally decide that they
might want to do something
that's kind of bold, and
different, and unique,
they stop themselves,
because they've observed
so much that they're like, oh,
that person did that, and then
well, that brought
them-- you know what?
I'm fine.
There's no reason
to make a change.
So that can be a challenging
piece to the observer.
>>MARK: Completely valid.
>>WAGNER: Is it?
>>MARK: Yes.
>>WAGNER: And what happens.
When the observer
is just starting
to understand the stuff
they're coming in,
there's that moment where they
start to piece things together
like, oh, that
person, this person.
And you start to
get a lot of wisdom.
You grow a lot as an observer.
What this can also do, it can
also make it a little bit lazy.
And lazy not in a really
bad sense, but a lazy
in like, oh, well,
since that's already
being manifested in
some way in the world,
maybe I don't need to do it.
And that has validity.
I mean, we all think of
that in creative projects.
Well, is that out there?
Somebody's doing
that really well.
You know what?
I don't need to do that.
But for you, in your
observing, you've
actually amassed a great
deal of understanding.
We're gonna get to what that
understanding is in a second.
A big part of, possibly,
where you're at right now--
this is kind of possibly
what I'm picking up here--
is you've got a really huge.
I mean, your heart is just-- you
have a sweet, sweet, sensitive
heart.
I could just feel it
as soon as I met you.
I was like, what a sweetheart.
And when somebody has
such a sweet heart,
they can be jolted very easily
by even simple, basic harshness
from people.
And it's easy to take some
of that a little personally,
or have it kind of stop us.
And I'm that way.
Sometimes I'll be so sweet,
I'll be talking to butterflies
and, you know,
somebody will show up
and say or do something,
and I'm like--
[CROAKING]
I can't speak.
You know.
It takes me, like,
months to find that one
tier that I can speak again.
But there's a little
of that in here.
>>REGINA: What is this
one you're pointing to?
>>WAGNER: This The Indifferent.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>WAGNER: And what happens
with The Indifferent,
after they understand all
these things they've seen,
they've made some choices in
their lives, they've grown,
they've gotten to a position
of mastering some things,
really understanding pieces
of life, but for some reason,
because they might not
have taken advantage
of some of the early
passions-- they
didn't grab it-- that
there's this period-- it's
a very short period
of time, usually--
where they're just a
little indifferent about,
well, I guess I don't
really need to do that.
Or I don't really feel
very connected to that.
It's feeling a little separate
from reality, in a way.
Not totally disconnected.
That's why I say it's
The Indifferent, where
you're trying to find
what that thing is
that you want to do next.
And that's the predominant
feeling I have here is,
what is that that
you want to do next?
That's the question that I
felt was kind of coming in
as we were sitting down.
That there's something you
actually have a passion for,
there's something that you may
not have put into words yet.
But is there something
specific that you've
started to piece together that
you want to try, or do, or?
>>MARK: Yeah.
I mean, I'm a
visual artist, so I
work with that material
a lot, and I've
taken a break from that.
And now I'm kind of just
coming out of a period
where-- you know, I
have a small child,
so I'm coming out of the period
of just kind of wondering
exactly what you said.
Just where am I going?
What am I doing?
And not feeling-- feeling a
little dispassionate about it,
I guess, but not like bad.
Like hopeful.
Very hopeful.
So just trying to
find that direction
and just kind of get that
little nugget and go for it.
>>WAGNER: Cool.
See, you're in
that pause before.
You're in the pause between
two symphony movements.
>>MARK: I think I am.
Yeah.
I could be post pause, but
clinging onto the pause.
Maybe that might be valid.
>>WAGNER: But that's
what observers do.
They love to watch
things unfold.
And you're-- what are you?
You're an editor.
You're a video editor.
>>MARK: Yes, I am.
>>WAGNER: So you're in
the film business of you
watch things on a screen.
You're a great observer.
I mean, it's really
interesting that you drew this,
in so many ways.
>>MARK: Exactly.
But I've always
been that person.
I was fascinated
with subcultures
when I was much younger, and,
you know, I saw too much.
Absolutely.
>>WAGNER: Well, but you're
also super young enough to be
able to do anything you
want, and you've accumulated
a great deal of wisdom,
understanding, ability,
and you're a strong man,
and you've got this ability
to tap into your heart.
You live through your
heart, and that's
a hard thing to do, actually.
>>MARK: It is.
>>WAGNER: A lot of
people stop doing that.
So I hope you keep that
alive, because it's beautiful.
So then why do we-- so
then the question becomes,
how do we end up here
at The Toxic card
after this kind of sweet, little
story as you're in this pause?
>>MARK: Hmm.
>>WAGNER: And here's
what I want to say,
and I'm gonna be a little
direct about it, if I can.
>>MARK: Please do.
>>WAGNER: There are just a
couple of people in your life
that I'm just not sure
they belong there.
And I just don't
feel like they're
valuing you to the degree that
you really should be valued.
And what I would say is, as you
look at some of the people--
and I don't know
how many there are,
but it feels like there's
a couple people that
use some language with you
that isn't very empowering,
and you have an intimate
relationship with them.
And I would start to
learn how to place
a boundary on that language.
Don't let it into your heart.
Because you'll let
anything in because
you want to be there for people.
You're really good at people.
Meanwhile, what I feel
this card is also saying
is that you've mastered
toxins in a way.
You've kind of, maybe,
had some bad patterns.
Maybe some things you did for
awhile and you're finally like,
you know what, I'll
never do that again.
And out of the
exploration, no matter
whether it was an addiction or
just a bad behavioral pattern,
or just a bad trajectory.
Because you met this
person, you did this thing,
and all of a sudden
you're like, wow.
That was stupid.
Whatever it is.
And we've all done it.
>>MARK: What color
was that liquid?
>>REGINA: Oh, really?
>>WAGNER: Should I have
drank the whole thing?
Regardless, you've mastered
this, the notion of toxins.
I mean, it's like you know, if
you're ever bitten by a snake.
I was bit by a snake once, and I
was able to suck something out,
but there's something
about toxins.
You've kind of done
something for yourself
where toxins don't really
affect you the way they used to.
And there's a mastering of that.
And as you were sitting down,
just what came to me about you,
separate from the cards you've
drawn, I just wanted share it,
and then we'll get to this,
because this is your influence,
is The Healer.
And I feel as though there's
a path for you as a healer.
I mean, even just
as someone that's
social in an environment,
you're providing
healing energy for people.
I mean, you might not know
this, but just my own experience
so far, I just walked into this
building and then I met you,
there was this-- I just had
a lovely moment with you.
I don't know if you know
what you're transmitting,
but I loved it.
>>MARK: Wow.
>>WAGNER: I mean,
just saying hi to you,
I was like, oh,
what a sweet man.
And so that speaks
to The Healer.
And I just wanted
to ready one thing
in The Healer part
of the book, and it
says, "prayers are answered
when our vulnerability is
equal to our desire.
Judgment-- self-judgment
especially--
locks debris in
the etheric body,
blocking the self
from being fulfilled
as it engages with reality.
Find peace by harmonizing
with the sound
of the softest, sweetest wind.
The most vulnerable
part of you."
And you have this in you.
You understand toxins.
You're in a place of answering
a very important question.
What is my value, and what
can I do next with that value?
And I'm a great observer,
but I've done all the
observing I need to, really.
So as you look at this question
in this place is a difference,
in this pause
between symphonies,
think as vulnerably as you can.
Open your heart.
You know those little,
secret parts of the heart
that nobody really knows about.
Those sweet, little, tiny,
beautiful wishes and desires.
I think there's
something in there.
It might be very simple.
It might be a simple
daily behavior, a ritual,
it might be a project,
a partnership,
an individual you
haven't reached out to,
but get in there.
You're so good at sharing
your heart with others.
I'd like to hear that you might
use some of that vulnerability
and that understanding of your
vulnerability for yourself.
To serve yourself with
your vulnerability.
Do something with it.
Honor it, and I think you find
something really wonderful
happening.
>>REGINA: I have a
question on this one.
>>WAGNER: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
You said he's learned to
master toxicity to an extent.
Is it also possible, when you
draw this card, that you've
learned to kind of just
contain, or hold, or accept
a certain amount of toxicity
also out of a sense of,
jeez, I'm just not
ready to deal with it?
And I can live alongside it.
Is that what that
means, often, too?
>>WAGNER: That's right.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: You just kind
of have to accept what is.
>>WAGNER: That's
right on the money.
>>REGINA: Until action happens?
>>WAGNER: Mhmm.
Yeah.
And I started out.
I didn't want to
get too into it,
because I didn't want
to kind of scrape too
far beneath the surface, but I--
>>MARK: Sure.
>>WAGNER: In this idea
of setting boundaries
with some people,
but you said it best,
where, what have you gotten
used to that's not good for you?
What is that?
>>REGINA: That's kind
of what I was feeling.
And I don't know, but
that's what I was feeling.
>>MARK: Well, I can say, not
in detail, why, I totally
understand what you're saying.
>>WAGNER: So this has
resonance for you.
>>MARK: Yes, it does.
Absolutely.
>>WAGNER: This is
a time-- and it's
a time in consciousness'
evolution--
it's a time to honor
the sweetest, most
vulnerable parts of us.
The universe is responding
dramatically to that.
That all the light beings,
whether they're alien,
or whatever
dimensions they're, on
whether they're
the archaic corners
of the spiritual universe, or
our own guides and ancestors,
they're ready to respond to the
sweetest, most simple, purest
vibration of our desire.
That really precious part of us
that we've covered up so much.
It's time for you to
allow that for yourself,
because you've got all the
goods inside of you, man.
>>MARK: Wow.
Thank you.
>>REGINA: Very cool.
>>MARK: And that one.
>>WAGNER: And finally,
The Untouchable,
which is an awesome card.
>>REGINA: The
Untouchable is awesome?
>>WAGNER: So The
Untouchable is living
in front of a plate of glass
where nobody can touch him.
And when you master toxins, when
you set appropriate boundaries
with people, and you
know how to do that,
when you stop just
observing, but taking action
on your wisdom, when you allow
that beautiful pause to turn
into your own symphony
of vulnerability,
you end up being
protected by the universe.
So no matter who's
yelling at you,
or barking, or needing
something, you are focused
on your own plans, and
bringing those to life
will be a remarkable
experience for you.
>>REGINA: Oh, I got chills.
That's wonderful.
>>MARK: Yeah.
OK.
So this morning, my 3 and
1/2-year-old son looked at me
out of the blue and said,
daddy, what do you have to lose?
>>WAGNER: Aw.
>>REGINA: Oh my god.
Chills again.
>>MARK: I kid you not.
That is--
>>REGINA: From the
mouths of little angels.
>>MARK: He said
that this morning.
>>WAGNER: Aw.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>WAGNER: That sums this
up better than I could've.
What do you have to lose?
That's a great, beautiful thing.
>>MARK: This is great.
OK.
Thank you.
Wow.
>>WAGNER: You're welcome.
>>REGINA: Do you have
any questions about it,
or any kind of other
thoughts or observations?
>>MARK: I'm just gonna
believe it, totally.
>>REGINA: Yeah, there you go.
>>WAGNER: Might as well.
>>MARK: Yeah, because
it's awesome, right?
So bad habits and bad people.
Yeah.
I understand.
Work on those.
And yeah, this is
a fantastic thing.
Do you use intuition
as psychic ability?
I mean, how do you manifest.
Obviously, you wrote the
book, so you completely
understand the system.
>>WAGNER: Yeah.
Sometimes, I'm
really, really spooky,
and I have a whole, big download
that comes in for somebody.
And we're kind of
in a time thing
here, so I didn't totally
open all the floodgates here,
but I felt like we got
to the kernel of it.
But I am very
intuitive, so that's
a big part of the process here.
But I also stay out of
details, because I think people
can get really caught up.
Am I gonna be that person,
and this is, and this?
Because none of that
really so much happens.
That's for you to manage.
But intuition is
a big part of it.
But we all have the
same access, and that's
why I harp so much
on vulnerability
and the expression of emotion.
So if we don't express
emotions, there's no learning,
there's no embodiment
of the real lesson.
But if we do do that,
we start to vibrate,
and I call it an electromagnetic
experience of self.
Like we start to feel.
You know, the more we
express, you actually
can feel that connectedness
to everything.
And that's where
information comes from.
Because when you're that
piece of electricity,
that other electricity
is already connected.
The truth is just going to come
in, because it's all current.
>>REGINA: Resonance.
>>WAGNER: It's all
light and sound.
It's all resonance.
You know?
It'll just show up.
But if we don't do the work,
what ends up happening is,
those emotions that are in
our kidneys, our livers,
our adrenals, those emotions,
they're smarter than we are.
They're more
powerful than we are.
So they're going to
be magnetizing things
to them because they want
to experience themselves.
The hatred, the
anger, the oppression,
they're just going to bring
in more hatred, anger,
and oppression.
They're alive.
They're living beings.
It's like Dr. Masaru Emoto's
work with the water crystals.
It's the same.
We're just water.
So if we've already got
these things living in us,
they're going to run our life.
But if we move them
through us, we're
actually vibrating
that beautiful crystal,
that perfect water
crystal of joy,
because we've done that work.
So I always like to say when
people are using the cards,
yes, I'm intuitive, which
is sometimes of value.
What's most of value is you
processing your emotions,
and you'll find that
channel for yourself.
And you in particular
have an ability,
because you already know
how to open your heart.
We were just saying, that's
the most important thing
in the world is allowing
yourself to do that.
>>MARK: Well, I'm
grateful for this moment.
This is wonderful.
Thank you very much.
>>WAGNER: We're grateful, too.
That was lovely.
Really lovely to spend time on.
>>REGINA: Well, we have
a few minutes left.
I just drew one card
in the dressing room
before coming out here, and
it's number 64, The Outrageous.
>>WAGNER: Yes.
>>REGINA: So OK.
What's up?
>>WAGNER: All right.
The Outrageous, this is actually
one of my favorite cards,
and the reason being
is, I think we all
walk around the world, most
of us, myself included.
We adopt a couple
of personalities,
and personalities
are really temporary.
We don't have to align
ourselves with and defend
that personality.
They're temporary.
But we've been walking
around this world.
We come out of the womb in a
very intense operating room.
Immediately, we
have an experience.
That's culture.
We go into a family.
That's confined.
There's a religion.
There's a work belief.
I mean, all these things
are imposed upon us.
>>REGINA: They create
a persona or two.
>>WAGNER: Huge.
And these layers.
And then, you know, we're
always looking at the sky,
but if our sky is
these layers, that's
what we think the
expanded universe is.
So that's what we're
going to fulfill.
We're going to
fulfill-- You know,
we're going to connect
with that and embody it.
But The Outrageous
says, you know what.
You know, this is a man.
I'm going to put
on a dress and I'm
going to go dance by a stream.
And this is really
all of our potential,
is to live on our own terms and
to defend those terms with joy.
And I always say, whatever
it is that you want to do,
even that little
thing that you're
feeling like, oh, those people
are going to think I'm nuts,
you know, because we build
these lives, and then, well,
this life, even if we
look at it objectively,
it should do the
following things.
This is what that
person should do.
But that's not even true.
No matter what life
we've built, you
can still step out
of that form, that
construct, even if
it's feeding you
financially and emotionally.
You can still step out and
shout to the world whatever
it is you want to shout,
and whatever your dance is,
you can still do it.
So that's what
the outrageous is.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
That actually was probably a
perfect card for me to draw.
>>WAGNER: Nice.
>>REGINA: Because I can
get stuck in persona,
you know, and then stuck
in whatever the mode is
that I have to keep
driving forward with,
and not even stop
to think and express
what I really want to
express or feel in life.
>>WAGNER: Right on.
>>REGINA: And I'll
get trapped inside.
And I noticed here,
this is really fun.
OK.
So along with all this
comes a coloring book.
So I turned to
the coloring book.
64, The Outrageous.
And it's a little workbook.
Yeah you can bring your crayons.
It's kind of cool.
But then you have to
start kind of going
through how this is affect--
how this interfaces with you.
What you're afraid
of, what you think
isn't happening, what you think
is, what you think you can,
what you think
you're blocked about.
You have to kind of go through
the whole process of self
evaluation by the time you're
done with your crayons.
>>WAGNER: It's nice.
>>REGINA: Then you
have to rate yourself.
>>WAGNER: You rate
this part of you.
So in the way the book is
structured, and the workbook--
>>REGINA: It's cool.
>>WAGNER: It's nice, because
you get to walk through.
You walk through humanity,
which is within us.
And by grieving it,
releasing it, letting go,
expanding some pieces, we
become closer to ourselves.
So that's why I
made the workbook.
>>REGINA: Yes.
No.
And you said that when
you go into groups
of corporate or whatever,
and you do all of this--
this is part of my
deck, so I'm keeping it.
>>WAGNER: Oh, you go.
>>REGINA: That's your deck.
>>WAGNER: OK.
>>REGINA: Anyway.
And that when you go
into these groups,
you have them work with
these coloring books,
and they go into
depth on whatever it
is, whether it's outrageous,
or, you know, any of them.
The observer.
And you have to
kind of think, yeah.
Mm.
Where am I blocking
myself there?
So it's really
good self analysis.
So it's very cool
how you set it up.
>>WAGNER: And forgiveness.
>>REGINA: And forgiveness.
Yeah.
>>WAGNER: I mean, the
core of it is forgiving
each past aspect of humanity,
and that allows you to forgive
each aspect within
you, and there's
freedom, and compassion, and
it can be a lovely thing,
because we all got
these things we've been
holding onto for a long time.
>>REGINA: All of us.
And on that note,
thank you so much.
>>WAGNER: My pleasure.
>>REGINA: And thank you for
being vulnerable and doing
this.
>>WAGNER: Yeah, that was lovely.
>>REGINA: This was great.
>>MARK: That was a good time.
I love it.
>>REGINA: So the name
of the book, again,
is "The Field Guide
to Human Personality,"
and the cards as well,
and the coloring book.
You can get this at any
major bookseller, right?
>>WAGNER: Yeah.
I just got into Barnes & Noble.
I'm all throughout
Colorado right now,
but it's just starting to grow.
>>REGINA: There you go.
>>WAGNER: And I have a
cute little website, which
is probably on your screen.
>>REGINA: And you have number
two and three coming up.
Volumes two and three also
will be coming up as well.
>>WAGNER: Yes.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: So this
is the beginning.
>>WAGNER: Yes.
>>REGINA: It's nice and plump.
There's a lot to
work with there.
>>WAGNER: Right on.
>>REGINA: Again, thank
you so much, Paul.
>>WAGNER: Thank you.
>>REGINA: Until
next time, thank you
for joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[THEME MUSIC]